In the last lecture I have mentioned that we can ask users surrounding the seeder for some additional
input.
So let's go into the Cedar class from which that database cedar extends.
You can go to this class by pressing out and clicking on the class name so you can see that there is
protected field command and command is itself an instance of the Artisan command.
So let's see what we can do with it.
So first thing we can do is we can ask the customer the user running the cedar if he wants to refresh
the database.
Otherwise we will have to run peach bee migrate refresh with the seed flag.
So let's see how we can do that.
This command confirm.
So confirm is a method which allows us to ask a question and provide a default value.
Basically this is.
Yes or no.
So here we can specify the question do you want to refresh the database
now.
If the user would confirm that he would like to refresh the database we can use this command call.
And here we can write any artisan command available and since we know we can call migrate to refresh
we can do that.
Additionally there is another useful method inside this common class called either line which would
just print a line or info which would print a green message that something was successful so we can
say database was refreshed.
Now we can immediately check if that works by running Peach Pit artisan D.B. seed.
So what you see here is you are being asked the question with the default no.
As you might see here in this confirm method the default value is false.
So if you would like to always propose users that their migrations should happen by default you can
provide the second value here.
To be true and then let's rerun it again to see what we got.
So you can see that by default we got yes.
So that means user just wouldn't have to enter anything pressing Enter would be enough.
Now let's see what happens if we type.
No.
We got an error because we got the duplicate entry for example for this email and that is because that
database is already seeded so let's remove the default value and see what we achieve by having this
question asked before we run our cedar so if we type.
Yes it will refresh the database showed the message that database was refreshed and then run all the
seeders one by one.
Now it's important to note that obviously do not have to ask users for any additional input.
I'm just showing you are an option that you can achieve it this way.
But obviously you don't really have to do that running cedar as it is by default as you have written
it is also fine.
But what happens if we got this questions asked and we wouldn't like to be asked any questions you just
want to proceed with some defaults and random DBC to come out without being asked any questions.
So if you run Peach Pit artisan without any common name you get some help.
And if you will scroll to the top there are also available options.
One of them is Dash and or no interaction.
So if you will run BHP artisan Debbie seed with that and the flag or any parameter what you will get
is you won't get asked any questions.
It will just proceed with all the defaults.
So we get an error because that database is already see that and we got some duplicates.
Okay.
Now let's move on to the other see there is that we have for example the user table cedar.
And another thing that we can achieve is for example we can ask users how many users they want to be
created.
So obviously here we also have access to the command field because this glass is also extending the
base cedar class which has this comment field and the method name we can use is ask So here we can ask
a question and get get some value so let's ask how many users would you like.
Now this time the second value is the default one that we will get if user want to enter an input so
we can keep it up 20.
And now another important thing is that since we are accepting input it will be a string and the factory
accepts an integer.
So we'll have to cast this value to integer and final step is to change this constant 20 to the variable
to which we have read the input from the user so let's clear the terminal and run everything again.
So first question is do we want to refresh the database.
Yes.
And now we can see on the bottom that we are being asked how many users would we like.
So if you will press enter you will just get the default that you can see or you can even say that you
want thousand users and it will actually add 1000 users to the database.
Now let's go ahead and do the same thing for the blog post so we will ask the same question here.
But this time will of course ask for the blog post and use the default that we have here which is 50
maybe we can also rename it to block count doesn't really matter how we call it and put this variable
here so there won't be a static value but what we read from the variable but now we have a problem since
we are asking for asking the user how many users he would like to be created.
He can also type 0 and then we won't have any users.
And here we depend on at least one user bank available.
So what we can do is we can use a plain peach bee max function which would get the bigger value of the
two values provide it.
So if we'll call this Max with the input from the user and one it will get a bigger value.
So in this case if the user would provide zero or invalid value it will create at least one user.
So this is a protection for ourselves because otherwise Well we it doesn't make sense to create anything
else if we do not have at least one user.
So in this case we are safe now we can ask for the blog posts and create some blog posts.
Now let's also copy this line and see what we can do with the comments.
So how many
comments would you like.
We can also provide a default to be 150.
Change the variable name to comments count
and modified a static value to use the variable.
And now with this we allow users to actually specify that they want zero blog posts.
So in this case we should check if posts count is bigger than zero.
And in this case we can provide information using command.
There are no blog posts so no comments will be added.
We can even move that as the first thing that happens because well it doesn't make sense to ask for
how many comments users would want if.
Well there's nothing to be added.
We can also add a written statement.
So nothing will happen if there are no blog posts to be found.
And of course if there are any we can then ask for how many comments they want and create the appropriate
number of comments.
So let's clear the screen and test it all out.
So first let's see.
We have refreshed the database.
Now how many users would you like.
Well let's type 0.
So at least one should be created.
Now how many blog posts would you like.
Let's see 0.
Now it seems at this point we are being asked for how many comments we would like.
And obviously this is because I've made a mistake here not these not sorry for that we should check
what our posts count is actually equal to zero not whether it is bigger than zero.
Because only then we just quit this action so let's save this changes again press control see in the
terminal and rerun that again.
So yes we specify zero so we should have at least one user zero for the blog posts and now we can see
that we got this message that there are no blog posts so no comments will be added.
Now let's go to the database to see what we have so we can see 0 blog posts 0 comments.
And actually we got two users because one of them is like hardcoded the John Doe it is being created
from the state inside the model factory so you can play around with it provide different combinations.
But this is generally a way you would use to ask the users for some additional input and also remember
that if you do not want to ask the users any questions or you do not want to be asked any questions
then you can just around DBC with the end flag and then it will provide you the default values and default
options for everything.
So this would just crash because we have duplicate entry but in case you will manually refresh the database
then it will just work with the defaults.